README.md, before:

# BuildKit CLI for kubectl

[![Build Status](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/actions/workflows/pull_request.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/actions/workflows/pull_request.yaml?query=workflow%3Apre-and-post-merge+branch%3Amain)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl)


BuildKit CLI for kubectl is a tool for building OCI and Docker images with your kubernetes cluster.
It replaces the `docker build` command to let you quickly and easily build your single and
multi-architecture container images.

![Pants Cast](./docs/pants-cast.svg)

## Features

### Drop in replacement for `docker build`

The BuildKit CLI for kubectl replaces the `docker build` command with `kubectl build` to build
images in your kubernetes cluster, instead of on a single node. Your Dockerfile will be parsed
the same way as with the existing `docker build` command, and build flags should feel almost
the same.

### Uses containerd or docker runtime environments

Regardless of whether your Kubernetes cluster is using pure [containerd](https://containerd.io) or
[docker](https://docker.com), the builder will be able to build OCI compatible images. These
images can be used inside of your cluster, or pushed to an image registry for distribution.

### Works in numerous kubernetes environments

The BuildKit builder should work in most Kubernetes environments. We tested it with:

  * [vSphere Tanzu](./docs/installing.md#vmware-vsphere-tanzu)
  * Amazon EKS
  * Minikube
  * [VMware Fusion](./docs/installing.md#vmware-fusion)
  * Docker Desktop
  * k0s
  * [k3d (limited support)](./docs/installing.md#k3d)

You should use Kubernetes version 1.14 or greater.


### Supports building multi-architecture images

If you need to support building multi-architecture images, the builder can create those by
cross-compiling your binaries. Multi-architecture images allow you to create images _with the same tag_
so that when they are pulled, the correct image for the architecture will be used. This includes
architectures such as:

 * linux/amd64 (Intel based 64 bit images)
 * linux/386 (Intel based 32 bit images)
 * linux/arm/v7 (ARM based 32 bit images - Raspberry Pi)
 * linux/arm64 (ARM based 64 bit images)
 * windows/amd64 (Intel based 64 bit Windows images)

Future versions will include native builds in mixed clusters, as well as being able to
emulate architectures when it's difficult to cross-compile. Check out the [multi-architecture](./docs/multiarch.md)
documentation for more information.

## Getting started

### Installing on Windows

We produce [Choco](https://docs.chocolatey.org/) compatible packages in our https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/releases
Just download the latest `nupkg` artifact and in a PowerShell Admin terminal, run
```
choco install .\kubectl-buildkit*.nupkg
```

Note: if you haven't already done so, you will need to run `choco install kubernetes-cli` once to get `kubectl` installed.
### Installing on Linux

We also produce `.deb` and `.rpm` packages which should work for most distros in our https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/releases
Just download the latest artifact and use `yum install ./kubectl-buildkit*.rpm` or `apt install ./kubectl-buildkit*.deb`

### Installing the tarball

Head over to https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/releases and download the `tgz` asset for your platform.

Once downloaded, extract it into your path.  For example, on MacOS
```sh
cat darwin-*.tgz | tar -C /usr/local/bin -xvf -
```

Test your install with
```sh
kubectl build --help
```

### Building from source

Check out our [contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) guide for instructions on setting up your environment and build instructions

### Changing contexts

If you're using more than one kubernetes environment, switch to the context you wish to use with
the buildkit builder.

```
kubectl config get-contexts
kubectl config use-context <context name>
```

### Creating a Kubernetes Registry Secret and Pushing

If you're going to push a newly created image to a container registry, you will need to store your
container registry credentials. This can be done either by passing a secret through a multi-stage
Dockerfile, or with a *registry secret* inside of Kubernetes.  Although either method can store your
plaintext password, you should consider creating an API key in your registry to be more secure.

To create a registry secret inside of Kubernetes, use the command:

```
read -s REG_SECRET
kubectl create secret docker-registry mysecret --docker-server='<registry hostname>' --docker-username=<user name> --docker-password=$REG_SECRET
kubectl build --push --registry-secret mysecret -t <registry hostname>/<namespace>/<repo>:<tag> -f Dockerfile ./
```

Hint: if you're trying to authenticate to Docker Hub, use `https://index.docker.io/v1/` as the `--docker-server`

### Registry-based Caching

BuildKit is smart about caching prior build results for efficient incremental
builds.  This works great for a single-node scenario, but if you want to build
on a multi-node cluster, you can take advantage of BuildKit's ability to use a
registry for cache persistence.  This can have a significant improvement on
incremental build times regardless of which node in the cluster your build lands
on.  For best performance, this registry should be "local" to the cluster.  The
following examples demonstrate this pattern:

* [./examples/local-registry.yaml](./examples/local-registry.yaml) A kubernetes Deployment+Service to run a local registry (unauthenticated)
* [./examples/local-registry-buildkitd.toml](./examples/local-registry-buildkitd.toml) A BuildKit TOML configuration example for the above Registry that configures it for **"insecure" access**

To setup from the root of this tree:
```
kubectl apply -f ./examples/local-registry.yaml
kubectl buildkit create --config ./examples/local-registry-buildkitd.toml
```

You can then build using the registry cache with the command:
```
kubectl build -t myimage --cache-to=type=registry,ref=registry:5000/cache --cache-from=type=registry,ref=registry:5000/cache .
```

## Custom Certs for Registries

If you happen to run a container image registry with non-standard certs (self signed, or signed by a private CA)
you can configure buildkitd to trust those certificates.

First load your certs into a ConfigMap:
```sh
kubectl create configmap custom-root-certs --from-file=root_ca1.pem --from-file=root_ca2.pem
```

Then create a `buildkitd.toml` file for your registries where the certs above will be mounted into `/etc/config`
```
debug = false
[worker.containerd]
  namespace = "k8s.io"
[registry."myregistry1.acme.local"]
    ca=["/etc/config/root_ca1.pem"]
[registry."myregistry2.acme.local:5001"]
    ca=["/etc/config/root_ca2.pem"]
```

You can then create a customized builder with
```
kubectl buildkit create --custom-config=custom-root-certs --config ./buildkitd.toml
```

## Contributing

Check out our [contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidance on how to help contribute to the project.

This project wouldn't have been possble without the awesome upstream work from [BuildKit](https://github.com/moby/buildkit) which serves as the back-end builder, and [buildx](https://github.com/docker/buildx) which this CLI was derived from.

Commit message:

Add brew Formula for a Tap
This should make it easier for folks to install the CLI on MacOS.

README.md, after:

# BuildKit CLI for kubectl

[![Build Status](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/actions/workflows/pull_request.yaml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/actions/workflows/pull_request.yaml?query=workflow%3Apre-and-post-merge+branch%3Amain)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl)


BuildKit CLI for kubectl is a tool for building OCI and Docker images with your kubernetes cluster.
It replaces the `docker build` command to let you quickly and easily build your single and
multi-architecture container images.

![Pants Cast](./docs/pants-cast.svg)

## Features

### Drop in replacement for `docker build`

The BuildKit CLI for kubectl replaces the `docker build` command with `kubectl build` to build
images in your kubernetes cluster, instead of on a single node. Your Dockerfile will be parsed
the same way as with the existing `docker build` command, and build flags should feel almost
the same.

### Uses containerd or docker runtime environments

Regardless of whether your Kubernetes cluster is using pure [containerd](https://containerd.io) or
[docker](https://docker.com), the builder will be able to build OCI compatible images. These
images can be used inside of your cluster, or pushed to an image registry for distribution.

### Works in numerous kubernetes environments

The BuildKit builder should work in most Kubernetes environments. We tested it with:

  * [vSphere Tanzu](./docs/installing.md#vmware-vsphere-tanzu)
  * Amazon EKS
  * Minikube
  * [VMware Fusion](./docs/installing.md#vmware-fusion)
  * Docker Desktop
  * k0s
  * [k3d (limited support)](./docs/installing.md#k3d)

You should use Kubernetes version 1.14 or greater.


### Supports building multi-architecture images

If you need to support building multi-architecture images, the builder can create those by
cross-compiling your binaries. Multi-architecture images allow you to create images _with the same tag_
so that when they are pulled, the correct image for the architecture will be used. This includes
architectures such as:

 * linux/amd64 (Intel based 64 bit images)
 * linux/386 (Intel based 32 bit images)
 * linux/arm/v7 (ARM based 32 bit images - Raspberry Pi)
 * linux/arm64 (ARM based 64 bit images)
 * windows/amd64 (Intel based 64 bit Windows images)

Future versions will include native builds in mixed clusters, as well as being able to
emulate architectures when it's difficult to cross-compile. Check out the [multi-architecture](./docs/multiarch.md)
documentation for more information.

## Getting started

### Installing on MacOS

We include a [Brew](https://docs.brew.sh/) Tap in this repo.  First add the Tap with
```sh
brew tap vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl
```

Then you can install with
```sh
brew install kubectl-buildkit
```

Keep up-to-date with  `brew upgrade kubectl-buildkit` (or `brew upgrade` to upgrade everything)

### Installing on Windows

We produce [Choco](https://docs.chocolatey.org/) compatible packages in our https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/releases
Just download the latest `nupkg` artifact and in a PowerShell Admin terminal, run
```
choco install .\kubectl-buildkit*.nupkg
```

Note: if you haven't already done so, you will need to run `choco install kubernetes-cli` once to get `kubectl` installed.
### Installing on Linux

We also produce `.deb` and `.rpm` packages which should work for most distros in our https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/releases
Just download the latest artifact and use `yum install ./kubectl-buildkit*.rpm` or `apt install ./kubectl-buildkit*.deb`

### Installing the tarball

Head over to https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/buildkit-cli-for-kubectl/releases and download the `tgz` asset for your platform.

Once downloaded, extract it into your path.  For example, on MacOS
```sh
cat darwin-*.tgz | tar -C /usr/local/bin -xvf -
```

Test your install with
```sh
kubectl build --help
```

### Building from source

Check out our [contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) guide for instructions on setting up your environment and build instructions

### Changing contexts

If you're using more than one kubernetes environment, switch to the context you wish to use with
the buildkit builder.

```
kubectl config get-contexts
kubectl config use-context <context name>
```

### Creating a Kubernetes Registry Secret and Pushing

If you're going to push a newly created image to a container registry, you will need to store your
container registry credentials. This can be done either by passing a secret through a multi-stage
Dockerfile, or with a *registry secret* inside of Kubernetes.  Although either method can store your
plaintext password, you should consider creating an API key in your registry to be more secure.

To create a registry secret inside of Kubernetes, use the command:

```
read -s REG_SECRET
kubectl create secret docker-registry mysecret --docker-server='<registry hostname>' --docker-username=<user name> --docker-password=$REG_SECRET
kubectl build --push --registry-secret mysecret -t <registry hostname>/<namespace>/<repo>:<tag> -f Dockerfile ./
```

Hint: if you're trying to authenticate to Docker Hub, use `https://index.docker.io/v1/` as the `--docker-server`

### Registry-based Caching

BuildKit is smart about caching prior build results for efficient incremental
builds.  This works great for a single-node scenario, but if you want to build
on a multi-node cluster, you can take advantage of BuildKit's ability to use a
registry for cache persistence.  This can have a significant improvement on
incremental build times regardless of which node in the cluster your build lands
on.  For best performance, this registry should be "local" to the cluster.  The
following examples demonstrate this pattern:

* [./examples/local-registry.yaml](./examples/local-registry.yaml) A kubernetes Deployment+Service to run a local registry (unauthenticated)
* [./examples/local-registry-buildkitd.toml](./examples/local-registry-buildkitd.toml) A BuildKit TOML configuration example for the above Registry that configures it for **"insecure" access**

To setup from the root of this tree:
```
kubectl apply -f ./examples/local-registry.yaml
kubectl buildkit create --config ./examples/local-registry-buildkitd.toml
```

You can then build using the registry cache with the command:
```
kubectl build -t myimage --cache-to=type=registry,ref=registry:5000/cache --cache-from=type=registry,ref=registry:5000/cache .
```

## Custom Certs for Registries

If you happen to run a container image registry with non-standard certs (self signed, or signed by a private CA)
you can configure buildkitd to trust those certificates.

First load your certs into a ConfigMap:
```sh
kubectl create configmap custom-root-certs --from-file=root_ca1.pem --from-file=root_ca2.pem
```

Then create a `buildkitd.toml` file for your registries where the certs above will be mounted into `/etc/config`
```
debug = false
[worker.containerd]
  namespace = "k8s.io"
[registry."myregistry1.acme.local"]
    ca=["/etc/config/root_ca1.pem"]
[registry."myregistry2.acme.local:5001"]
    ca=["/etc/config/root_ca2.pem"]
```

You can then create a customized builder with
```
kubectl buildkit create --custom-config=custom-root-certs --config ./buildkitd.toml
```

## Contributing

Check out our [contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidance on how to help contribute to the project.

This project wouldn't have been possble without the awesome upstream work from [BuildKit](https://github.com/moby/buildkit) which serves as the back-end builder, and [buildx](https://github.com/docker/buildx) which this CLI was derived from.
